# Detecting_CVDs_ECG
Classification of electrocardiogram (ECG) signals plays an important role in the diagnosis of heart diseases. In this paper, we offered a computerized Artificial Neural Network (ANN) based Classification of Atrial Fibrillation, Ventricular Fibrillation, and Normal. The proposed model was trained and tested on the MIT-BIH arrhythmia database. ECG recording of 26 datasets of patients with paroxysmal or sustained atrial and ventricular fibrillation. For the preprocessing the signal had to go through multiple noise removal techniques like moving average filter, simple low pass FIR filter, Butterworth high pass filter, and low pass Butterworth filter. The ANN model is fed with the 30,450 training examples and validated across 6,525 examples and then tested with 6,525 examples with an accuracy of 0.99%.

We presented a model that will detect myocardial infarctions through an ECG. Compared to previous work our model works in two steps: pre-processing and classification. Our approach begins by preprocessing which include removing of noise from the given ECG digital signal and make it less noisy so next step become easy. Atrial fibrillation and ventricular fibrillation are among those arrhythmias which if not detected early may lead to heart attack or stroke. For signal acquisition we use the dat set from MIT BIH arrhythmia database. The database includes long term ECG recording of subjects with paroxysmal or sustained atrial fibrillation. Recorded ECG signals are digitized at 120 Hertz. We gather around 26 datasets of patients having atrial and ventricular fibrillation. For the preprocessing the signal had to go through multiple noise removal methods. There are various noise in the ECG including Electromagnetic intervention, EMG, Baseline wander and motion artifacts. 
First of all, the mean value is calculated from the noisy signal and then the obtained mean of the signal is subtracted from it thus making the mean value zero. Next a moving average filter is applied to the signal which is a very simple low pass FIR filter which is used for smoothing the signal. As the filter length increases the smoothness of the output increases, whereas the sharp transitions in the data are made increasingly blunt. In the third step we have applied a Butterworth high pass filter with the cutoff frequency of 1 Hertz the signal. This signal will impose drift suspension on the signal. a high pass filter is a circuit that diminishes all the signals below a specified cut off frequency denoted. At last we have applied a low pass Butterworth filter of order 12 with a cutoff frequency of 20 Hertz a low pass filter is applied to remove unnecessary high frequency information. The purpose of applying the Butterworth filter was not only to completely reject the unwanted frequencies but should have the uniform sensitive from the Wanted frequencies. Butterworth filters are one of the most commonly used digital filters used in motion analysis and in audio circuits.
We used a Neural Network which consists of four layers, 200 input, 400 hidden layer one, 700 hidden layer two and 3 output layer neurons. We used ReLU activation function and Adam optimizer. We were able to acquire the accuracy of 99% through training and validating our ANN model. For testing we used  functions accuracy score, classification report and technique confusion matrix to evaluate our model through which acquired 100% precision and out of 6,525 examples 6,505 were predicted accurately which means only 0.3% of error.

